tags: 
- #projectmanagement 
- #ukraine2022

### Notes:
[Interesting post on twitter](https://threadreaderapp.com/thread/1500301348780199937.html) from FSB's analytst on russian position in ukraine war. It's a google example of bad (project) #management.
Tags : #projectmanagement 

--- 

some notes for one of the task related to the Project Management Google Certificate #projectmanagement 
- new pricing structure for their menu tablets and the software.
- subscription-based service, which includes hardware, software, support, customization, POS integration, and more as part of a monthly flat rate. I think it’s a much better service for us, but it does change the price point.
- So instead of $8000 for using all the tablets in the first year, it will cost us only $3,600, including support. But, that $3,600 will need to be paid every year going forward.
- actually changes the tablets from a one-time expense to a recurring cost,
- email from Seydou. Vendor: Terrific Tablets


Notes on OKR which are impacted:
- Consistently innovate through annual projects (like menu tablets) to give customers a better dining experience
- Keep our operating expenses below 65% and our profit margins above 8% in order to focus on providing high-quality food.

--- 

- closeout report -> #ProjectHygiene 
- impact report 

---

tags: - #resume #CareerDevelopment #interviews

Interesting resources: https://www.coursera.org/learn/applying-project-management/supplement/11mwR/top-tips-for-interview-success
1. Find connections between the job listing and your resume.
	> First, re-read your resume and the job description to help you draw lines between the two. Where do they connect? Then, as you interview, include specific keywords or phrases from the job description that match skills you possess or achievements you have accomplished previously in your career.
2. Focus on data.
	> As you start to think about things you want to highlight in your interview, don’t forget to include _data_. This helps your interviewer understand not just your overall achievements, but how big of an impact you made. What data can you provide that tells the story of your experience as it relates to the position? The “equation” we suggest using to convey this information goes something like this: _I accomplished X as measured by Y doing Z_. Here’s an example: “I increased customer satisfaction by 22% in three months by designing a new digital onboarding process.”
3. Look back at past work experiences.
	> Review your work history. That may not sound like something you need to prepare for, but most of us have done more than we think. It’s easy to forget some of our own wins—and lessons learned from mistakes.
4. Come ready with questions.
	> Come to the interview with your own questions, such as “What are some upcoming projects I’d be working on? What current goals is the company focused on? Can you tell me about the team I’ll be working with?” This not only shows you care about understanding the company and the position you’re applying for, but it’s also a testament to the research you’ve done by looking into the company. Besides, this is your opportunity to interview _them_ as well.

Stuff to do: aggregate [[Project Management Artifacts]]

--- 

#mrrip 

Video reaction to [[Ali Abdaal]] on ["Why I left medicine ... forever"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mZOVLrLXKCE)
> In this video we're going to have a bit of a chat about the thought process behind this decision, and I'll share my thoughts around the main fears that I had after investing 8 years of time and money into it.

-> it's a cost-opportunity analysis on the life of this guy
-> [[talent allocation]]
-> effective altruism
