# Notes

### How to (Actually) Change Someone’s Mind 
#hbr #psychology #leadership 

Notes on how to convince people.
- Cognitive Conversation: detractor with objective reason -> use sound arguments and good presentation -> they usually repeat in the future
- Champion Conversion: detractor harbors a grievance in your relationship -> invest time in personally learning about and building rapport with them -> you still need to be backed up by logic
- Credible Colleague Approach: detractor deep personal beliefs make them fundamentally opposed to you -> ask to a credible colleagues for their help -> it may be a double edge sword

---

### Geofolio
#geofolio #geodata
Interesting stuff about geographical data: [https://geofolio.org/](https://geofolio.org/)
> Define an area of interest anywhere in the world, and we'll automagically create thematic factsheets containing interactive maps, charts, written overviews, and statistical summaries – all based on open geodata.
> -   Create thematic factsheets with information on vegetation, agriculture, soils, weather, climate, and land use.
> -   Factsheets contain interactive charts and maps.
> -   Global coverage and based on open datasets.
> -   Source data available for download.

It seems to build just a report.

---
#AI #Meta #ml  #DataScience 
> [[Mephisto]], a new open, collaborative way to collect, share, and iterate on best practices for collecting data to train AI models. Mephisto allows researchers to share novel collection methodologies in an immediately reusable and iterable form

> In Mephisto, we identify a number of common workflows for driving a complex annotation task from the idea stage through gathering the data. This allows for iterating on task design and quality control in a meaningful way before any data collection task. It also allows us to publish our methodologies for the wider AI community to use or improve upon.

- [Announcement](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/introducing-mephisto-a-new-platform-for-more-open-collaborative-data-collection/)
- [Official site](https://mephisto.ai/)
- [Github](https://github.com/facebookresearch/Mephisto)

--- 

[Article](https://towardsdatascience.com/data-mesh-solution-and-accelerator-patterns-acffbf6e350?source=userActivityShare-85cd43785826-1648493850&utm_source=pocket_mylist&_branch_match_id=906890384373621520&_branch_referrer=H4sIAAAAAAAAA8soKSkottLXz8nMy9bLTU3JLM3VS87P1fcvsfDxKQkJ88lPsi8tyY0vzi8tSk61LchPzk4tic%2BtzMksLgEAMyHHozwAAAA%3D) on #TowardsDataScience about [[Data Mesh]] opportunity.
Article which need an overall understanding of what is data mesh.
