tags:
- #journal 
- #CareerDevelopment 

### Notes:
Article on #hbr about on fruitful careers in companies. It's a research to define metrics to understand if a job is fruitful or not. The metrics are in the following categories:
- [[Job quality]]
	1.  What percent of workers earn the local living wage?
	2.  How many workers have health care?
	3.  How many new jobs are created each year where pay is above the local living wage?
- [[Job Mobility]]
	1.  What percentage of workers that started below the living wage moved to jobs that paid above living wage each year?
	2.  What percentage of the lowest paid workers left the company before their one-year anniversary? How many left before the two-year mark?
- [[Job Equity]]
	1. What is the demographic composition in the company’s high-wage occupations? How does it compare to that of the local pool of potential labor?
	2. What is the difference in mobility rates in each of the company’s wage quintiles for different demographic groups?

It is an article for managers or high-tier professional. I don't think at the moment is really useful for me or my career. However, there are useful insights such as the following:
> An initial examination of the data showed that training expenditures were highest among low-wage workers at the company...
> ... we learned that most other training expenditures were directed at higher-wage workers and that these workers were more likely to take advantage of training benefits offered by the company.
> ...This analysis helps explain the disconnect between training and retention at this company. It also suggests that offering training without offering the time to take advantage of that training may be counterproductive.

---

Article on #hbr about data usage to improve #projectmanagement  or #management in general. 

Use data and tools to analyze information about people and relationships is critical. -> Can improve learning strategies in a company?

This is called [[Computational Leadership Science]] -> intersection of trailblazing science and technology, well-established leadership research, and invaluable knowledge gleaned from practice.

Examples in the article:
- use [[NLP]] to have insight on morale and engagement from survey questions
- use #AI to map who knows what, who is working with whom in the organizations (interesting possible application about #graphanalytics and [[Graph databases]]) and assigns the right people to the right job. 

Obviously #explainability  is a key point in this stuff. 

External references:
- [Netflix CEO Explains Why "Gut" Decisions Still Rule In The Era Of Big Data](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gregoryferenstein/2016/01/22/netflix-ceo-explains-why-gut-decisions-still-rule-in-the-era-of-big-data/?sh=1cc1f10c1e09)

---

article on #hbr on how to learn how to say no. Useful for #CareerDevelopment .
> ...when you never say no, you will actually increase the likelihood of the outcomes you fear. And when you do say no — when necessary — you reduce the likelihood of dropping balls and save your sanity.

Some suggested strategies :
- **Time commitments**: start asking yourself if something is the right investment of your time -> may lead to understand if something is useful for your career
- **Tasks**:  redirect people to other resources to solve a problem.  Personally, I would suggest to create "conflits" (you're asking something which is really interesting and I would like to work on but I have other commitments. Solve me this problem and I may help you).
- **Time Frames**: recognizes unreasonable time schedules.