Read articles in backlog on getpocket.

Topics:
- Personal and career growth
- Project management

## #1
Article on how to be an effective data science team leader and not just a manager.
TL;DR:
- Think using concepts instead of technology
- Effective communication
- Stick to KPIs
- Manage support

Normal article

## #2 
9 strategies to manage anxiety in DS careers:
- keep calm
- continuous learning
- ask for help
- organize
- measure strength
- do not set high standards
- manage and optimize time
- take breaks
- take reality for that it is 

normal article

## #3

Nice article on [[Networking]] tips for networking haters.
- Look for islands during events
- Remember dormant ties
- Turn it into a game
- Don't stress preparing for small talks <- adopt patterns to make people curious or prepare few specific quetions for people so that they are ready to tell themselves

## #4

Article on [[burnout]] and how it is related to the workplace and not just the person itself. 
Top causes:
1.  Unfair treatment at work
2.  Unmanageable workload
3.  Lack of role clarity
4.  Lack of communication and support from their manager
5.  Unreasonable time pressure

Some interesting stuff -> **Motivation-Hygiene Theory**

## #5 
Article about strategies to adopt if you don't like your job.
1. Skill building to position you for your next opportunity
2. Relationship building to encounter new possibilities
3. Personal growth: use your job to know better yourself

## #6
Article on strategies to keep employees motivated.

## #7 
Article on how to excel in strategy and execution

## #8 
Extremely interesting article on shifting to star manager from top performer. Useful for [[Personal Development]] or [[Being a Manager]].

> ...The right way to use your achievement drive is to bring it out to help _others_ find and achieve challenging goals. You must learn to step out of the spotlight and shine a light on others’ accomplishments. It makes them feel great, while inspiring their peers. Your need for achievement isn’t going to go away, of course. You just need to learn to balance it with concern for others’ desire to do a good job, on their own terms. This takes tremendous emotional intelligence, starting with self awareness. Then, you need empathy, a willingness to understand others, and self management.
>  ...The boundaries between you and your employees are real. They _work_ for you. That doesn’t mean you can’t be friendly and human. In fact, learning to be warm and authentic with people who report to you will serve you for the rest of your life. But, beware the jealousy factor. No doubt you’ve inspired a bit of envy on the way up. And now that you’ve been tapped to become a manager, it can tip people over the edge from envy to jealousy. Jealousy is a dangerous, destructive state — for you and for them. And, while you can’t control others’ emotions, you can certainly do a few things to help people through. Don’t inadvertently compare their work to what you used to do in that job. Shine a light on their successes, give them credit, and build them up — authentically.
>  ...You can, however, channel your need for power toward the betterment of others, and of the group — this is socialized power. It allows you to satisfy your very human need to have, and be seen to have, influence while also doing good for people and your company.

[Link](https://hbr.org/2015/10/shifting-from-star-performer-to-star-manager?fbclid=IwAR0HME-MkRemzy4NI-iZtBAmclTLpA91Z1BHUzMb-XHOHueMiDbrwOY7Jbk&tpcc=orgsocial_edit&utm_source=pocket_mylist) to original article.

## #9 
Article on reaching HRs

## #10
Article on hacking AI used for resume scanning.
Website to test the resume -> [Jobscan](https://www.jobscan.co/)

## #11
article on how to evaluate, accept, reject, or negotiate a job offer.
## #12
interesting article with six strategies to take control of your own [[Career Development]]
1. Understand what your are evaluated on.
2. Solve your own blind spots
3. codify your learnings
4. increase visibility
5. Become an expert in an area of increasing importance to your company
6. Seek good counsel and mentoring